.TH SSHKNOCKD 8 "" "sshknockd 0.2.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sshknockd \- server-side port knocking daemon and helper CLI for SSH access control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sshknockd
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.br
.B sshknockd
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR] \fBsetup-firewall\fR
.br
.B sshknockd
\fBupdate\fR
.br
.B sshknockd
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR] \fBknock\fR \fISERVER\fR
.br
.B sshknockd
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR] \fBssh\fR \fISERVER\fR [\fISSH_ARGS\fR...]
.br
.B sshknockd
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR] \fBprint-script\fR \fISERVER\fR
.br
.B sshknockd
[\fB--config\fR \fIPATH\fR] \fBconfig\fR
.br
.B sshknockd
\fBversion\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sshknockd
listens for a configured TCP, UDP, or ICMP knock sequence and temporarily allows the source IP to reach the configured SSH TCP port through ipset and iptables rules.
.PP
The knock sequence is not authentication. SSH authentication remains the security boundary.
.PP
The same binary also provides optional helper subcommands. The required product flow remains clientless and can be performed with common tools such as nc, ping, shell redirection, or SSH ProxyCommand.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup-firewall
Creates the configured allow and ban ipsets and installs iptables or ip6tables rules for the protected SSH port.
.TP
.B update
Fetches the latest GitHub release from the built-in repository, compares it with the installed version, selects a DEB or RPM package for the current Linux distribution and CPU architecture, installs it, and restarts the sshknockd systemd service.
.TP
.B knock
Sends the configured TCP or UDP knock sequence to the server.
.TP
.B ssh
Sends the configured TCP or UDP knock sequence, waits briefly, then runs ssh with the configured port.
.TP
.B print-script
Prints shell commands that reproduce the configured sequence without a helper binary. The server argument is shell-quoted, and unsafe values are rejected.
.TP
.B config
Prints a short summary of the loaded configuration.
.TP
.B version
Prints the installed sshknockd version.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sshknockd.toml
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/sshknockd/sshknockd.log
Default SIEM-oriented audit log file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR nc (1),
.BR iptables (8),
.BR ip6tables (8),
.BR ipset (8),
.BR systemctl (1)
